#labels Featured
(Windows mini-tutorial)

*Share your stroll and your geolocalized pictures with Picasa, Google Earth and Google "My maps"*


[http://farm1.static.flickr.com/169/463087878_910dc1fc91_o.jpg http://farm1.static.flickr.com/169/463087878_59e732237a.jpg]


[http://farm1.static.flickr.com/177/463141211_5d54cb93db_o.jpg http://farm1.static.flickr.com/177/463141211_2686b6ea88.jpg]

=== Goals ===

Create a unique file containing the geolocalized pictures and the GPS tracklog.

You can then put this kmz file on a weberver or send it by mail. Google Earth is necessary to open the file.

Gather these KMZ Google Earth files on a "My maps" (Google maps).

Enlarge the screen shots to better understand the key steps.

=== Few examples ===

[http://francois.schnell.free.fr/geo/riquewhir-8-april-07-viaPicassa.kmz A mountain bike stroll in the vignard (Riquewhir, Alsace, France)] (fichier [http://francois.schnell.free.fr/geo/traklog-8-april-07-riquewhir.gpx gpx])

[http://francois.schnell.free.fr/geo/westhoffen-6-april-07-viaPicassa.kmz Mountain biking near Westhoffen (Alsace)] (fichier [http://francois.schnell.free.fr/geo/traklog-6-april-07-westhoffen.gpx gpx])

Yoy can also link your kmz files on a Google [http://maps.google.com/help/maps/userguide/index.html#overview "My maps" page]
( example with [http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&z=9&ll=48.443778,7.597046&spn=0.668648,1.867676&t=h&om=1&msid=100273353392671595172.00000111f1333a196b094&msa=0 some of my bike rides]).

=== Steps  ===


*1)*Search for your *geocoded pictures*. If  they are not already geocoded you can use GPicSync ( see [GettingStarted] )

*2)* Launch *Picasa* (from version 2) and select the folder containing the geocoded pictures.

Picasa identifies automatically the geocoded pictures by showing a little circle with a cross (below to the right of each picture).

*3)* Select the menu *"Tools" -> "Geotag" -> "Export to Google Earth file"*.

You're invited to give a name to your kmz file.

Picasa will create this file (in fact a renamed zip) which contains all your geocoded pictures resized to the 400*300 pixels format which is Ok for web sharing or to send by mail.

*4)* Find this kmz file on your disk and double-click on it: Google Earth should launch and show you the geolocalized pictures.

*5)* If you want to add and visualize latter the *GPS tracklog in the kmz file*:

  * drop your gpx file inside Google Earth. You should now see the tracklog.
  * on the left look at the "Places" pan and  seach for the folder "Tempory places". It should contain your pictures and you GPS track log ("GPS Device"). Is something else is present you'll maybe want to remove it.
  * Right click on the folder "Tempory places", then "save as" (give the name that you want to the resulting kmz file).

Your kmz file contain now your geocoded pictures and the GPS trace.

*6)* If the KMZ file is not to heavy you can send it by mail or better put it on a websever and give the URL of the file to others.

*7)* Eventually create a "My maps" gathering some of your kmz, links and other informations.

You can easily do that by mouse clicking on your Google map (you need a Google account).

  * Go here (and log in): http://maps.google.com/
  * click on "My maps" tab
  * click on "create a new map"
  * add a placemark for each of your trip
  * edit the placemark and put the text, image or links you want
  * more [http://maps.google.com/help/maps/userguide/index.html#overview informations about Google "My maps"]

For my part I upload my kmz to the free webspace I have at my ISP (via FTP). I then make a link in each placemark of "My map".

Others ideas, tips or things to correct ? Please say so on the [http://groups.google.com/group/gpicsync GPicSync group] 

  