=== GPicSync is available in: ===

  * *English* (default)
  * *French*
  * *Italian* by bartman from [http://www.x50v.it/ x50v.it]
  * *German* by Michael, alias anwi for the main translation and the review and help from Konrad Bauckmeier
  * *Traditional Chinese* and *Simplified Chinese* by Paul lu ([http://digital.xy.hk digital.xy.hk])
  * *Catalan* and *Spanish* by Oriol Garrote ([http://www.skimountaineering.org/ skimountaineering.org])
  * *Polish* by Dominik Wójcik ([http://www.biegacze.pl/ www.biegacze.pl]) 

To change the language in the software go in "Options">"Language" and select your language. The next time you launch the software it will be in the language you have selected.

===How to contribute a new translation ?===

If you wish to contribute a new language for GPicSync you're very welcome ! :)

Here's how to proceed:

1) Save this text file on your computer: [http://gpicsync.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gpicsync-GUI.pot gpicsync-GUI.pot] (make a right click and "save link as")

This is a text file with a ".pot" extension. The best way is to use a text editor (like notepad for example). You mustn't save it as "binary" file in a word processor. 

The file look like:
{{{
#: ..\..\..\gpicsync-GUI.py:66
msgid "Local time correction"
msgstr ""

#: ..\..\..\gpicsync-GUI.py:67
msgid "&Options"
msgstr ""

#: ..\..\..\gpicsync-GUI.py:69
msgid "About..."
msgstr "" 
}}}

(lines beginning with # are just comments)

The goal is to fill the double quotes in msgstr "" with your translation of the English  line above.

For example in French it will look like this:

{{{
#: ..\..\..\gpicsync-GUI.py:66
msgid "Local time correction"
msgstr "Correction temporelle"

#: ..\..\..\gpicsync-GUI.py:67
msgid "&Options"
msgstr "&Options"

#: ..\..\..\gpicsync-GUI.py:69
msgid "About..."
msgstr "A propos..."

}}}

When you've filled all of them you can send the file back to me. I will compile it and add it to the software. Tell me also the name/first name (or pseudo) and eventual link you wish to see in the credits.

*Few guidelines:*

  * Try not to be longer than the English string even if you have to be less precise in the meaning (some strings have limited spaces like in buttons for example)
  * Keep the spaces you can find eventually at the beginning or the end of a string

THANKS ! :)